STATE OF CALIFORNIA
DECISION OF THE PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS BOARD

MUTUAL ORGANIZATION OF SUPERVISORS, Charging Party,
v.
FAIRFIELD-SUISUN UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, Respondent.

Case No. SF-CE-2806-E
PERB Decision No. 2262
May 8, 2012

Appearances: Rick Lemke, Job Steward, for Mutual Organization of Supervisors; Littler Mendelson by Bruce Sarchet, Attorney, for Fairfield-Suisun Unified School District.
Before Martinez, Chair; Dowdin Calvillo and Huguenin, Members.

DECISION
HUGUENIN, Member: This case is before PERB on exceptions filed by the Mutual Organization of Supervisors (MOS) to the proposed decision of a PERB Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer concluded that the Fairfield-Suisun Unified School District (District) did not violate section 3543.5(c) of the Educational Employment Relations Act (EERA). The complaint alleged that without affording MOS notice or an opportunity to negotiate, the District changed its discipline policy when it terminated a MOS unit employee without following the progressive discipline steps and relied instead on a "zero tolerance" policy with respect to the employee's alleged refusal to submit to a random controlled substance and/or alcohol test. The Hearing Officer concluded the termination complied with contractual procedure and dismissed the complaint. As set forth below, we reverse the proposed decision.

PROCEDURAL HISTORY
On October 19, 2009, MOS filed its unfair practice charge.
On November 12, 2009, the Office of the General Counsel issued a complaint in this matter.
On August 24, 2010, a formal hearing was held.
On January 25, 2011, the Hearing Officer issued the proposed decision.
On February 15, 2011, MOS filed its exceptions.
On March 8, 2011, the District responded.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Jurisdiction: The District is a public school employer (EERA section 3540.1(k)). MOS is the exclusive representative of an appropriate bargaining unit (EERA section 3540.1(e)).
Bargaining Unit: The MOS-represented bargaining unit includes 12 supervisory positions; two are in the transportation department (transportation supervisors), including "Transportation Operation Supervisor."
Progressive Discipline: Prior to 1996, the contract contained a progressive discipline procedure (Article 11), unchanged since. Article 11 states, in pertinent part: "Progressive steps shall be utilized in handling discipline and the discipline shall be commensurate with the offense. The following actions will be taken in order: Verbal reprimand / Written reprimand / Discipline less than dismissal / Dismissal. If the conduct of [the unit member] endangers the safety of students, employees, or District property, the Superintendent or his/her designee will not be required to follow the progressive steps of discipline and may suspend supervisor with pay pending the outcome of the process prescribed herein. The Superintendent or designee for reasons stated in writing and sent to [MOS] may skip one or more steps in the above sequence in cases of emergency."
Federal Drug Testing: The District employs approximately 45 school bus drivers. Federal regulations require random drug/alcohol tests (49 C.F.R. § 382 et seq.; § 382.211).
Adoption of Procedure: On March 14, 1996, the District's Governing Board adopted District Administrative Regulation 4112.41, "Drug and Alcohol Testing For School Bus Drivers," effective retroactive to January 1, 1996. The Regulation provides that a driver who refuses a random test "will be disciplined in accordance with the [D]istrict's policy of 'Zero Tolerance.'" Under the zero tolerance policy, drivers refusing to be tested "will be dismissed." There are no exceptions.
Campbell Termination: The District hired Keith A. Campbell as a school bus driver in or about 2001 and promoted him to transportation supervisor in 2003. On April 10, 2009, the District sent Campbell for a random drug test; when instructed to disrobe below the waist to permit inspection for a prosthetic device, Campbell refused, and the facility reported he refused to participate. On April 13, 2009, the District suspended Campbell. On May 15, 2009, the District served written notice it was considering termination. On May 27, 2009, the District served written termination charges. The District terminated Campbell on March 25, 2010. The DMV revoked Campbell's school bus driver's certificate effective December 30, 2009 for "[n]ot less than three (3) years."

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
To prove a unilateral change, the charging party must establish: (1) the employer took action to change policy; (2) the change concerns a matter within the scope of representation; (3) the action was taken without giving the exclusive representative notice or opportunity to bargain; (4) the action had a generalized effect or continuing impact. (Walnut Valley Unified School District (1981) PERB Decision No. 160; Grant Joint Union High School District (1982) PERB Decision No. 196.) The conduct for which Campbell was disciplined fell outside both Article 11 exceptions. The zero tolerance policy is discretionary and negotiable.

DISTRICT DEFENSES
EERA section 3541.5(a)(1) bars complaints based on practices occurring more than six months before the charge. Here MOS filed its charge on October 12, 2009, within six months of the District's termination notice to Campbell on May 15, 2009. The District failed to establish waiver by contract, waiver by inaction, or laches.

CONCLUSION
The District unilaterally changed its contractual employee discipline policy, violating EERA section 3543.5(a), (b) and (c).

REMEDY
The Board will order the District to cease and desist and, within thirty (30) days of the effective date of this order, to offer Campbell reinstatement and reimburse him for lost salary and benefits plus 7% interest per annum from March 25, 2010, and to post a notice.

ORDER
A. CEASE AND DESIST FROM: (1) establishing/enforcing a zero tolerance policy re any MOS unit employee's alleged refusal to submit to a random test without meeting and negotiating with MOS; (2) interfering with employees' right to be represented by MOS; (3) denying MOS its right to represent its unit members.
B. AFFIRMATIVE ACTIONS: (1) rescind the zero tolerance policy as to MOS unit employees; (2) Within fifteen (15) days of the service of a final decision: offer Keith Campbell reinstatement and reimburse him for lost salary and benefits plus 7% interest from March 25, 2010; (3) within ten (10) workdays, post the Notice for thirty (30) consecutive workdays; (4) notify the PERB General Counsel.
Chair Martinez joined. Member Dowdin Calvillo concurrence follows.

DOWDIN CALVILLO, Member, concurring: I concur in the result. I find it unnecessary to determine whether Campbell's conduct fell within the Article 11 "safety" exception, because the District did not rely on Article 11 in terminating Campbell but on the zero tolerance policy, and only claimed the safety exception after the charge was filed.

APPENDIX - NOTICE TO EMPLOYEES (Case No. SF-CE-2806-E). THIS IS AN OFFICIAL NOTICE. IT MUST REMAIN POSTED FOR AT LEAST THIRTY (30) CONSECUTIVE WORKDAYS.
