WARNING LETTER
Medical Chemical Corporation MARCS-CMS 706007 — July 09, 2025
Delivery Method: VIA UPS
Reference #: 320-25-91
Product: Drugs
Recipient: Mr. Emmanuel R. Didier, President and CEO, Medical Chemical Corporation, 19250 Van Ness Avenue, Torrance, CA 90501-1102, United States
Issuing Office: Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER)

Warning Letter 320-25-91
July 9, 2025

Dear Mr. Didier:

The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) inspected your drug manufacturing facility, Medical Chemical Corporation, FEI 2013736, at 19430 Van Ness Avenue, Torrance, from February 12 to 18, 2025.

This warning letter summarizes significant violations of Current Good Manufacturing Practice (CGMP) regulations for finished pharmaceuticals. See Title 21 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), parts 210 and 211 (21 CFR parts 210 and 211).

Because your methods, facilities, or controls for manufacturing, processing, packing, or holding do not conform to CGMP, your drug products are adulterated within the meaning of section 501(a)(2)(B) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act), 21 U.S.C. 351(a)(2)(B).

In addition, "MED CHEM Tincture Green Soap" drug product is an unapproved new drug introduced or delivered for introduction into interstate commerce in violation of section 505(a) of the FD&C Act, 21 U.S.C. 355(a), and is misbranded under section 502(ee) of the FD&C Act, 21 U.S.C. 352(ee).

Furthermore, we reviewed your firm's drug listing submissions in FDA's electronic Drug Registration and Listing System (eDRLS) and found that your drug products, Tincture Green, NDC 12745-041, and Isopropyl Alcohol, NDC 12745-105, are not properly listed as required by section 510(j) of the FD&C Act.

CGMP Violations
We reviewed your February 28, 2025 response to our Form FDA 483 in detail. Your response is inadequate because you failed to provide supportive documentation for evaluation or adequate evidence of corrective actions taken to bring your operations into compliance with CGMP.

During our inspection, our investigator observed specific violations including, but not limited to, the following.

1. Your firm failed to conduct at least one test to verify the identity of each component of a drug product. Your firm also failed to validate and establish the reliability of your component supplier's test analyses at appropriate intervals (21 CFR 211.84(d)(1) and 211.84(d)(2)).

Your firm manufactures over-the-counter (OTC) topical drug products, including hand sanitizers, Tincture Green Soap USP, and Isopropyl Alcohol 70% v/v. You failed to adequately perform identity testing on each shipment of each lot of incoming components (e.g., ethanol, glycerin) used in the manufacture of your OTC topical drug products. In addition, you relied on your suppliers' certificate of analysis (COA) without establishing the reliability of your component suppliers' test analyses at appropriate intervals.

Products Containing Ethyl Alcohol and Isopropyl Alcohol
You failed to adequately test your incoming component ethyl alcohol (ethanol), used as an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API), for methanol. The use of ethanol contaminated with methanol has resulted in various lethal poisoning incidents in humans worldwide. Furthermore, you failed to demonstrate that the component alcohol ("C40B (b)(4) PROOF SDA 40B ETHYL ALCOHOL BULK"), used to manufacture your drug product Tincture Green Soap USP, meets United States Pharmacopoeia (USP) monograph specifications. For example, we reviewed your raw material specification for your component alcohol and note that the specifications failed to demonstrate performance of the USP monograph identification parts A, B, and C.

Products Containing Ingredients at Risk for Diethylene Glycol or Ethylene Glycol (DEG or EG) Contamination
You also failed to adequately test your incoming components at high risk of diethylene glycol (DEG) or ethylene glycol (EG) contamination for identity before using them to manufacture your drug products. This includes, but is not limited to, testing of glycerin to determine its appropriate identity, prior to use in manufacturing your OTC topical drug products. Identity testing for glycerin and certain other high-risk drug components includes a limit test in the USP to ensure the component meets the relevant safety limits for DEG or EG levels. Because you did not perform identity testing on each shipment of each lot using the USP identification test that detects these hazardous impurities, you failed to assure the acceptability of these components for use in the manufacture of your drug products. The use of ingredients contaminated with DEG or EG has resulted in various lethal poisoning incidents in humans worldwide.

In your response, you state that you perform identity testing, use raw materials certified by trusted suppliers, and have added or will add certain assays to your specifications. Your response is inadequate because you do not provide adequate details to demonstrate identity testing meets all compendial requirements. Furthermore, your response does not address testing your high-risk drug components for DEG or EG contamination, or test ethanol for the presence of methanol contamination. Also, you do not address the potential impact on drug products in the U.S. market within expiry.

Without adequate testing, you do not have scientific evidence that the components conform to appropriate specifications before use in the manufacture of your drug products. You are responsible for sampling, testing, and examining drug components before use in production to ensure acceptable quality parameters are met.

In response to this letter, provide: A comprehensive, independent review of your material system to determine whether all suppliers of components, containers, and closures, are each qualified and the materials are assigned appropriate expiration or retest dates; the chemical and microbiological quality control specifications you use to test and release each incoming lot of components; a description of how you will test each component lot for conformity with all appropriate specifications for identity, strength, quality, and purity, including a commitment to always conduct at least one specific identity test for each incoming component lot (in the case of alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, glycerin, and certain additional high-risk components, performance of parts A, B, and C of the USP monograph); a summary of results obtained from testing all components to evaluate the reliability of the COA from each component manufacturer, and the SOP describing this COA validation program; a summary of your program for qualifying and overseeing contract facilities that test the drug products you manufacture; a commitment to provide methanol test results within 30 calendar days from testing retains for all lots of components within expiry; a commitment to provide DEG and EG test results within 30 calendar days from testing retains for all lots of high-risk drug components; and a full risk assessment for in-expiry drug products containing any ingredient at risk for DEG or EG contamination, including customer notifications and product recalls for any contaminated lots, and CAPA that secure supply chains in the future, including ensuring that all incoming raw material lots are from fully qualified manufacturers and free from unsafe impurities.

2. Your firm failed to establish adequate written procedures for production and process control designed to assure that the drug products you manufacture have the identity, strength, quality, and purity they purport or are represented to possess (21 CFR 211.100(a)).

You used "(b)(4) water" as a component to manufacture your OTC topical drug products. However, you have not established that the water system is adequately designed, maintained, and monitored to ensure that it consistently produces water suitable for its intended use. You lacked water system validation and failed to conduct total organic carbon (TOC) testing to ensure that your component water met (b)(4) Water United States Pharmacopeia (USP) monograph specifications. Additionally, you obtained excessive microbial growth from the point of use, "(b)(4) (No hose)" location, following (b)(4) water system maintenance sanitization cycles. The inadequate control of your water system poses a potential risk for objectionable microbiological contamination into your drug products.

In your response, you state that you will "revalidate" your (b)(4) water system and include TOC testing in your water specification. Your response is inadequate because you do not provide your initial water system validation, nor do you provide adequate details regarding your plan for performing water system validation, maintenance, and testing of the water system.

In response to this letter, provide: a (b)(4) water system validation report; a detailed risk assessment addressing the potential effects of the observed water system failures on the quality of all drug product lots currently in U.S. distribution or within expiry; the current action/alert limits for total counts and objectionable organisms; a procedure governing your program for ongoing control, maintenance, and monitoring; and validation of your microbiological test methods demonstrating they are equivalent to, or better than USP compendial methods.

3. Your firm's quality control unit failed to exercise its responsibility to ensure drug products manufactured are in compliance with CGMP, and meet established specifications for identity, strength, quality, and purity (21 CFR 211.22).

Your quality unit (QU) failed to perform adequate oversight for the manufacture and testing of your OTC topical drug products. For example, your QU failed to ensure the following: Establishment and review of adequate batch production and control records for each batch of drug product which include complete information regarding each significant step in the manufacture, processing, packing, or holding of the batch (21 CFR 211.188(b)); Establishment and review of adequate laboratory records which include all data obtained during testing (21 CFR 211.194(a)).

In your response, you state that you have added the mixing time to the batch record, and you maintain a temperature log of your incubator. Your response is inadequate because you do not provide sufficient details to demonstrate your QU will ensure the establishment and review of manufacturing records. Complete and accurate batch production and control records are necessary to ensure that manufacturing processes are consistently followed and reproducible. An adequate QU overseeing all CGMP operations is necessary to ensure consistent drug quality.

Unapproved New Drug and Misbranded Drug Violations
"MED CHEM Tincture Green Soap" is a "drug" as defined by section 201(g)(1)(B) and/or (C) of the FD&C Act. Examples of claims observed on the product labeling: "Drug Facts Active Ingredients Ethyl Alcohol, 30% Purpose Antiseptic Uses Intended for . . . mild antisepsis of skin . . . Directions Mix with water. Lather and rinse." Based on these claims, the product is intended for use as a topical antiseptic drug product and is a new drug within the meaning of section 201(p) because it is not generally recognized as safe and effective (GRASE). No FDA-approved application under section 505 is in effect, and the product does not conform to the 1994 Tentative Final Monograph as amended by the Consumer Antiseptic Washes Proposed Rule, nor meet the conditions under section 505G(a)(3). Accordingly, the product is an unapproved new drug marketed in violation of sections 505(a) and 301(d), and is misbranded under section 502(ee).

Drug Listing Violations
Section 510(j) of the FD&C Act and 21 CFR Part 207 outline the requirements for establishment registration and listing of drug products. Your products, Tincture Green, NDC 12745-041, and Isopropyl Alcohol, NDC 12745-105, were not certified as required, thus they were inactivated by FDA in January 2024. Therefore, your products are not properly listed under section 510(j), rendering these drugs misbranded under section 502(o).

CGMP Consultant Recommended
Based upon the nature of the violations we identified at your firm, you should engage a consultant qualified as set forth in 21 CFR 211.34 to evaluate your operations and to assist your firm in meeting CGMP requirements. The qualified consultant should also perform a comprehensive six-system audit of your entire operation for CGMP compliance. Your use of a consultant does not relieve your firm's obligation to comply with CGMP. Your firm's executive management remains responsible for resolving all deficiencies and systemic flaws to ensure ongoing CGMP compliance.

Conclusion
The violations cited in this letter are not intended to be an all-inclusive list of violations that exist at your facility. You are responsible for investigating and determining the causes of any violations and for preventing their recurrence or the occurrence of other violations. Correct any violations promptly. Respond to this office in writing within 15 working days.

Sincerely,
/S/ Francis Godwin, Director, Office of Manufacturing Quality, Office of Compliance, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research
/S/ Tina Smith, Captain, U.S. Public Health Service, Director, Office of Unapproved Drugs & Labeling Compliance, Office of Compliance, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research

Content current as of: 07/22/2025
